docs/how_does_atlas_work.md, before:

# How does Atlas work?
Atlas maps your data in three steps:

### 1. Data ingestion
Atlas ingests your data into a Project.
### 2. Data embedding.
When you build an Index over a project, Atlas will automatically run your projects data through advanced neural networks
which identify how datums in your project relate to one another.
### 3. Data organization.
Atlas then organizes the embeddings of your projects datums. This organization allows you to quickly search and
view your data on a two-dimensional map.

These steps are automatically executed when you run [`map_text`](atlas_client.md) or [`map_embeddings`](atlas_client.md) in the AtlasClient. You can see an
example of how to manually create a project, add data and create indices [here](https://github.com/nomic-ai/nomic/blob/main/examples/interactive_session.py).

Read on to learn about how projects, indices, maps interact in Atlas.

## Project
When you upload data to Atlas, your data is stored in a project.
Projects allow you to manage access control to your data and can be used to make maps.
You can make a project with the [`create_project`](atlas_client.md) method of the AtlasClient. Add data to your project with [`add_text`](atlas_client.md) or [`add_embeddings`](atlas_client.md)
methods depending on your projects data modality.

## Indices
Indices are ways of organizing the data in a particular project.
To organize your data onto a map, you need to build an index. You can build an index on a project with the [`create_index`](atlas_client.md) method by specifying
the projects unique ID.

## Maps
Maps are artifacts produced when your build an index on a project. When you build an index, you are returned a URL to
the projects map. Alternatively, find your project on your [Atlas Dashboard](https://atlas.nomic.ai/dashboard) and go
to its map.

## Organizations
Projects are owned by organizations. Organizations allow you manage granular access controls to projects.
Add your teammates to an organization to collaboratively interact with and explore your data.

Commit message:

Unified interface for progressive maps

docs/how_does_atlas_work.md, after:

# How does Atlas work?
Atlas maps your data in three steps:

### 1. Data ingestion
Atlas ingests your data into a Project.
### 2. Data embedding.
When you build an Index over a project, Atlas will automatically run your projects data through advanced neural networks
which identify how datums in your project relate to one another.
### 3. Data organization.
Atlas then organizes the embeddings of your projects datums. This organization allows you to quickly search and
view your data on a two-dimensional map.

These steps are automatically executed when you run [`map_text`](atlas_client.md) or [`map_embeddings`](atlas_client.md) in the AtlasClient. You can see an
example of how to manually create a project, add data and create indices [here](https://github.com/nomic-ai/nomic/blob/main/examples/interactive_session.py).

Read on to learn about how projects, indices, maps interact in Atlas.

## Atlas Project
When you upload data to Atlas, your data is stored in a project.
Projects allow you to manage access control to your data and can be used to make maps.
You can make a project with the [`create_project`](atlas_client.md) method of the AtlasClient. Add data to your project with [`add_text`](atlas_client.md) or [`add_embeddings`](atlas_client.md)
methods depending on your projects data modality.

## Atlas Index
An Atlas Index is a way of organizing data in a particular project.
To organize your data onto a map, you need to build an Atlas Index. You can build an index on a project with the [`create_index`](atlas_client.md) method by specifying
the projects unique ID.

## Atlas Map
Maps are artifacts produced when your build an index on a project. When you build an index, you are returned a URL to
the projects map. Alternatively, find your project on your [Atlas Dashboard](https://atlas.nomic.ai/dashboard) and go
to its map.

## Organizations
Projects are owned by organizations. Organizations allow you manage granular access controls to projects.
Add your teammates to an organization to collaboratively interact with and explore your data.
