docs/mapping_faq.md, before:

# Mapping FAQ
Frequently asked questions about Atlas maps.

## Mapping Latency

Map creation latency once Nomic has received your embeddings.

|  Number of datums/embeddings  |  Map availability latency (s)  |
|:-----------------------------:|:------------------------------:|
|            10,000             |            instant             |
|        10,001 - 99,999        |             10-40              |
|       100,000 - 499,999       |             40-180             |
|       500,000 - 999,999       |            180-600             |
|     1,000,000 - 9,999,999     |              600+              |


## Who can see my maps?
When you create a map, you can toggle it as private or public. Private maps are only
accessible by authenticated individuals in your Nomic organization. Public maps are accessible by anyone with a link.

=== "Atlas Client Private Map Example"

    ``` py title="map_embeddings_private.py"
    from nomic import AtlasClient
    import numpy as np
    
    atlas = AtlasClient()
    
    num_embeddings = 10000
    embeddings = np.random.rand(num_embeddings, 256)
    
    response = atlas.map_embeddings(embeddings=embeddings,
                                    is_public=False,
                                    organization_name='my_organization'
                                    )
    print(response)
    ```

## Making maps under an organization
If you are added to a Nomic organization by someone (such as your employer), you can create projects under them
by specifying an `organization_name` in the `map_embedding` method of the AtlasClient. By default, projects are
made under your own account.

## Disabling logging
Nomic utilizes the `loguru` module for logging. We recognize that logging can sometimes be annoying.
You can disable or change the logging level by including the following snippet at the top of any script.
```py
from loguru import logger
import sys
logger.remove(0)
logger.add(sys.stderr, level="ERROR", filter='nomic')

```

Commit message:

Force iso format with timestamp like fields

docs/mapping_faq.md, after:

# Mapping FAQ
Frequently asked questions about Atlas maps.

## Mapping Latency

Map creation latency once Nomic has received your embeddings.

|  Number of datums/embeddings  |  Map availability latency (s)  |
|:-----------------------------:|:------------------------------:|
|            10,000             |            instant             |
|        10,001 - 99,999        |             10-40              |
|       100,000 - 499,999       |             40-180             |
|       500,000 - 999,999       |            180-600             |
|     1,000,000 - 9,999,999     |              600+              |


## Who can see my maps?
When you create a map, you can toggle it as private or public. Private maps are only
accessible by authenticated individuals in your Nomic organization. Public maps are accessible by anyone with a link.

=== "Atlas Client Private Map Example"

    ``` py title="map_embeddings_private.py"
    from nomic import AtlasClient
    import numpy as np
    
    atlas = AtlasClient()
    
    num_embeddings = 10000
    embeddings = np.random.rand(num_embeddings, 256)
    
    response = atlas.map_embeddings(embeddings=embeddings,
                                    is_public=False,
                                    organization_name='my_organization'
                                    )
    print(response)
    ```

## Making maps under an organization
If you are added to a Nomic organization by someone (such as your employer), you can create projects under them
by specifying an `organization_name` in the `map_embedding` method of the AtlasClient. By default, projects are
made under your own account.

## Working with dates and timestamps
Atlas will consider any metadata field as a timestamp if and only if it matches the ISO8601 timestamp format.
You can convert a Python `datetime` object into the ISO8601 timestamp format as follows:
```py
import datetime
now=datetime.datetime.now()
now.isoformat()
```
If you are working with dates which are in a non-uniform format, parsing into datetime objects may be difficult. Nomic recommends
using the `python-dateutil` package in this situation. It will intelligently parse a string into a Python datetime object at the cost of some compute cycles.
```python
from dateutil import parser
date = parser.parse("Apr 15 1999 12:00AM")  # datetime.datetime(1999, 4, 15, 0, 0)
date.isoformat()
```

## Disabling logging
Nomic utilizes the `loguru` module for logging. We recognize that logging can sometimes be annoying.
You can disable or change the logging level by including the following snippet at the top of any script.

```py
from loguru import logger
import sys
logger.remove(0)
logger.add(sys.stderr, level="ERROR", filter='nomic')

```
